I. PREAMBLE 

HOSTEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 

"""Sri Lakshmi Aditya students hostel has authorized the Chief Warden to manage the affairs of the hostel. A team of wardens and supervisors are assisted to the chief warden. All of them are normally residents of the hostels. Maintenance of hostels and mess is managed by the Resident Director with the help of supervisory staff.



II. AIM 

To facilitate students coming from far away places, a comfortable stay through out the academic year, to develop community living, self dependence, self discipline, enhance moral values, team spirit, understanding adjustability, unity, integrity, loyalty and honesty along with academics and cocurricular activities conducted by the college and Hostel authorities.

III. ADMISSIONS 

Application for admission into the hostel must be submitted to the chief warden.

The right of admission into the Hostel is reserved. Admission into the Hostel will not be made as a matter of routine and it will be at the discretion of the management /Vice Chairman.


Hostel fees once paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.

The allotment of rooms to the applicants will be made by the Chief Warden. The hostellers are not permitted to change their rooms with out the written approval from the warden.


Students with chronic medical problems will not be admitted into the Hostel. By chance, If any student with chronic medical problems gets admitted into the Hostel, He will be asked to vacate the room immediately, to enable the student to have proper medical care by parent /guardian.


Regular absentees from classes, monthly tests, exams or students scoring less than the minimum pass marks in the monthly tests and the university exams may not be permitted to continue to stay in the Hostel. In other words, admission and continuous stay in the hostel depends upon academic performance and also on good behavior and conduct. The vice chairman's decision is final in this regard.



If a student is expelled from the college for any reason he should immediately vacate the hostel on the day of expulsion. His continuance in the hostel will be treated as unauthorized occupation.


IV. GENERAL PROCEDURE 

The hostel rooms are subject to inspection by hostel authorities to make sure that they are kept neat and tidy. Unauthorized items like liquor, lethal weapons, drugs etc are not permitted into the rooms.


The hostellers themselves are personally responsible to safeguard their belongings. They are advised not to keep large amounts of cash or valuables like gold ring, costly wrist watch, etc in their rooms. They should also take care of their purse, calculator, cell phones, computers and books. In case of theft or loss of any item, it is not normally possible to carry out any investigation. Yet the responsibility lies with the students themselves.





The hostlers are advised to keep their suitcases, cupboards etc securely locked with good quality locks.

All movements from and to the hostels should be recorded in the movement register kept in respective blocks and should be properly signed. No hostler is permitted to stay out of the hostel beyond 8.00 p.m.


The Security guard has instructions to lock the gate after the stipulated timings. If they have any local relatives with whom they intend to stay during weekends or if they have any local relatives who would like to visit them in the hostel , the names and addresses of such local relatives, duly authenticated by the parent/guardian, should be furnished along with the application.




The hostlers are generally discouraged from going out of the hostel during weekends and holidays. However in extra ordinary circumstances if they want to leave the hostel, written permission should be obtained from the Chief Warden. Whenever they leave the hostel for vacation they have to inform the warden in writing about the travel plan. They are also supposed to return on the specified dates.



No students should lock any room during their stay in the hostel. Students leaving the hostel after the semester or discontinuing their stay should leave their rooms and cupboards unlocked.


The hostlers are not allowed to use Air Coolers, Musical instruments, Cassette record players, Electric Irons or any Electrical Equipment or Sound boxes. If they want to play any musical instruments, they are supposed to play them in music room only.


No student is allowed to have any political affiliation. Any student involved in such activities is liable to be expelled from the hostel.


The hostel or college does not take any responsibility for legal or otherwise any accidental mishap caused to the boarder.

Though no efforts are spared to check the boarders from unlawful running away or truancy , the hostel or college authorities cannot be held liable for any search act.


Desktops are not allowed in the hostel.

The hostel authorities will conduct surprise checks periodically and if anyone is found violating any of the rules, disciplinary action will be taken against them.

All the hostlers must and should attend the study hours every day from 8:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. without fail.

Students are not allowed to keep any power driven two wheeler.

All the hostel students should vacate their rooms before proceeding on summer vacation.

V. HOSTEL DISCIPLINE 

Strict silence should be maintained between 10.30 PM and 6.00 A.M.

Perfect silence should be maintained in the hostel premises including Rooms, Bath Rooms, Dining Halls, Corridors, Common Areas etc. Every student of the hostel should have the civic responsibility that he should not be a cause of nuisance, annoyance or disturbance to others.

All hostlers should be present in their respective rooms and keep open the rooms between 8.30 P.M and 10.30 P.M every day to enable the Chief Warden or Wardens to take the attendance.

The hostlers are not allowed to enter in to any unnecessary conversation, discussions, quarrels, or altercation with the hostel staff. If any one has any complaint against any employee of the hostel, a written compliant against the person to be lodged with the Chief Warden. Use of abusive, vulgar and unparliamentary language against the hostel or mess staff is strictly forbidden.



The hosteller is solely responsible for his behavior and activities. Any harm caused due to their own wrong doings, the institute will not be responsible.


Any hostler found guilty of misappropriate action will be suspended immediately, followed with enquiry. They will not be allowed to stay in the hostel till the case is solved.


Smoking is prohibited in the hostel buildings. Gambling in any form such as playing cards, consumption of alcohol, use of drugs and narcotics and even possession of such things are prohibited. Any one found indulging in the use of such things will be asked to vacate the hostel and will also be rusticated from college.


Possession of any lethal weapons or any instrument/contrivance which is likely to cause physical harm to others is strictly prohibited.

If any hosteller is found indulging in any form of instigation / intimidation/ threat to any other hostler he will be asked to vacate the hostel forthwith. In this regard the decision of the Vice Chairman is final and is binding on the individuals concerned.


Day scholars are not allowed into the hostel.

Celebrating birthday parties inside the hostel is strictly prohibited. If the students want to celebrate birthday parties, they should celebrate parties at earmarked place ie the ground between south and north canteens from 9:00 PM to 9:30 PM.


Students are not allowed to play skating rollers and other out door games inside the hostel, because this cause breakages and accidents.

While leaving the rooms for attending classes or for vacation etc electrical gadgets, lights, water taps etc. should be switched off/closed. Glass windows are to be closed securely.


Students are not allowed to stay in the hostel during the class hours unless the stay is unavoidable due to illness or any other valid reason. In such cases they should take the permission from Chief Warden and should stay in care rooms only.

Hostellers coming to the hostel after the stipulated time with out prior permission will be fined. Regular late comers will not be allowed to stay in the hostel.


Water should be carefully used and not wasted.

Terrace entry prohibited.

Spitting in public or private rooms, verandas or stairs is strictly prohibited.

Defacing walls and fixtures is strictly prohibited.

Gathering or meeting of hostler in side or out side the hostel is strictly prohibited.

No religious ceremony which likely injure the feelings of the hostellers shall be performed in the hostel premises.

Wrong entry in the movement register, signing on behalf of another person, tempering with the entries are punishable.

In case of any quarrel among the roommates, it should be reported to the chief warden immediately.

Absence/late coming (without prior permission from the Chief Warden) will be fined.

Students coming late/being absent regularly will be expelled from the hostel. Such students shall not be readmitted under any circumstances.


Washing clothes and hanging wet clothes on windows, empty places are strictly prohibited in the hostels.

No curtains and news papers should be fixed to the room windows.

No ropes should be hung inside the room.

The students should keep the rooms clean or else each one will be fined Rs 100/-.

If any day-scholar is found in the hostel room without permission, both the hosteller and day-scholar will be fined.

Roaming, chitchatting, discussing with each other during study hours is subjected to punishment and action will be taken further more.

VI. MESS TIMINGS AND RULES 

All the hostel students should take their food in the allotted mess only.

Change of mess is not allowed. The mess change is permitted at the discretion of secretary and is allowed at the end of the month.

The mess timings are displayed at the entrance of the dining hall. These timings should be strictly followed. It is not obligatory on the part of the kitchen/dining hall staff to serve the meals outside the prescribed timings (7:00 PM-8:00 PM). Dining should be finished by 8:00 PM. No student is allowed to enter mess at or after 8:00 PM.



Dining hall furniture like chairs, tables etc and utensils like plate, glass, spoon etc are not to be taken out of the dining hall. If any one is found taking he will be penalized or fined.


The hostel kitchen is strictly OUT OF BOUNDS for the students.

Bringing food from the mess into the rooms is strictly prohibited.

Bringing food from the mess to the sick person in the hostel can be done after getting permission from the chief warden.

A separate Hostel ID Card will be issued to each hostel student. The identity card is to be produced at the dining hall, at the time of breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner, failing which service in the dining hall is liable to be refused, for want of identification.


VII. DAMAGES AND RECOVERY 

Rough handling of dining hall furniture, room furniture, or any furniture, fittings of the hostel is strictly prohibited.

The cost of damages will be recovered in the following manner: 

a) If any individuals or group is identified to have caused the damage, double the cost will be recovered from him / her group.

b) If damage is done in any of the rooms and the person is not identified then double the cost will be recovered from the roommates collectively.

c) If damage is done out side the rooms ie in common places like Corridors, Bath rooms, Recreation halls, Mess etc and the person is not identified, then double the cost will be recovered. Floor wise or on the whole, as the case may be.


Repetition of damage to the hostel property results in expulsion from the hostel.

IX. HEALTH CARE 

24 hours medical care is available in the campus.

Any hostler who is ill should report to the Warden or Chief Warden.

If the sick persons require medical care by out side hospital he should report to the Warden or Chief Warden for the arrangement of ambulance.

A sick student should invariably accompanied by one hostler and warden while going to out side hospital.

If the situation demands admission into an out side hospital as in-patient the same is to be reported to chief warden immediately.

X. Other Facilities 

Students can utilize gymnasium in respective timings only i.e. from 5 am, to 6 a.m. (I-Batch) and 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. (II-batch), 4.30 pm to 5.30 p.m. (I-Batch) and 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m (II-Batch).

There is a provision to subscribe to the newspapers/magazines (English) to be delivered in the rooms, for which Chief Warden may be contacted for further details.

English newspaper and magazines are provided in hostel. Hostellers are requested to make best use of them. News papers should not be brought into the room by any hosteller.


Common TV rooms are provided and they are opened upto 7 pm (10 pm on Saturdays), so as to allow the hostellers to go back to their hostel rooms before the silence hour starts. The above TV timings would be very strictly observed without any exception. However, during study hours and exam periods TVs shall not be operated.



A washer man collects the clothes for washing on Mondays and Thursdays in hostel itself. The hostellers can avail this opportunity by informing the chief warden. The rate for washing and pressing one pair will be Rs. 10 and for single piece Rs 5. The rate is subject to change.




A hair dressing shop is made available for the benefit of the students.

Supply of power through generator will be provided all the times, when regular power cuts are there.

XI. RAGGING 

Ragging in any form (making unpleasant noise, disorderly conduct, doing any act which causes or likely to cause physical or psychological harm or raise apprehension or fear of shame or an embarrassment to a new student, which include teasing, abusing, playing practical jokes on or causing harm to such students or Asking the new student to do any act or to perform such things) is strictly forbidden. If any one is found guilty of ragging he will be expelled and also liable for prosecution under the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1997 which includes minimum punishment with impression for a term which may be extend to two years and also be liable to a fine of Rs 10,000/-.



XII. Check in/Check out 

Students shall conduct a room check to verify the room inventory provided and endorse on the check in/check out from. Any missing or damaged items must be reported to chief werden immediately. Otherwise, it will be assumed that furnishings and fittings are in good order. The student will be responsible for any damage for any loss or damage there after. To check out, students must inform CW at least 3 working days in advance of the departure dates. House check, will be conducted by CW while checking out. All keys of the residents must be returned in person to CW. At the end of the occupational period, CW will deduct any damage cost of inventory from the deposit. The balance of the deposit, if any, will be refunded to the student.





XIII. Room / Inspection 

Management reserves the right for hostel wardens to enter and inspect the residence in the interests of health, safety and proper conduct for the students. Entry can be made at any time, whether or not the students are present, and with out prior notice to the students, if emergency, health of safety circumstances warrant such entry or if there are reasonable grounds to believe that any substances, material or item is being kept or used on the premises in any manner prohibited by the law, rules and regulations. Any such substances or item may be impounded by management's representatives with out prior notice. Any necessary cost of such removal shall be the responsibility of the Resident(s) who introduced the prohibited substance or item. Entry may also be made without prior notice, during normal hours, for the purpose of conduct on non-emergency inspections. For repairs and/or for the purpose of showing the premises, students will be notified in advance by the management.





XIV. Guidelines to the parent 

Parents and guardians are required to observe all the rules and regulations of the hostel which may be enforced from time to time. In case of dispute, the decision of the Vice Chairman is final and binding on them.


Parents and guardians will ensure that their wards are to abide by the rules and regulations enacted from time to time by the college authorities for the maintenance of discipline.

If parents give the permission to other people to meet their ward; parent must sign a letter of authority and hand it over to the Chief Warden.

The college and hostel authorities do not take responsibility in legal or otherwise for any accidental mishap caused to the ward.

No ward can leave the campus premises without the prior written permission of the Chief Warden, Warden and main gate Security.

If there is any change in corresponding Address or Telephone Numbers mentioned at the time of admission, parent/Guardian should send a letter mentioning the change of Address & Telephone Number to the College address.

Though no efforts are spared to check the hosteller form unlawful running away, the college and hostel authorities cannot be held liable for any such act of truancy.

All disputes arising out of any clash with the college authorities shall be admissible with the jurisdiction of Kalunada only.

Parents are directed to obtain health insurance coverage and a copy may be given to C.W to be placed in the student file.


The college / hostel are not responsible for any damage, sickness, accident or mishaps caused during routine functioning of college and hostel activities.

If any parent has problem concerning the ward, Chief Warden or Executive Secretary may be consulted. It will be appreciated if the parents encourage students to discuss any problems in the hostel with them. All efforts will be taken to solve problems.



GUIDE LINES FOR THE STUDENTS 

College uniform to be worn while going to classes.

During college hours, they will adhere to class timings.

All students are to adhere and must follow timings.

Students should follow dining table manners and etiquette which will be taught time and again.

No gathering or meeting of boarders shall be allowed in the hostel / college premises in any case.

Furniture or fitting must not be shifted from one room to another.

No religious ceremony likely to injure the feeling to the boarders shall be performed in the hostel premises.

Application for withdrawal from the hostel should be submitted to the Chief Warden.

Spitting in public or private rooms, verandahs or stairs in strictly prohibited.

Defacing walls and fixtures is strictly prohibited.

Students are warned against interfacing with electric fittings.

Any student who is absent from the hostel without permission for a period of more than one week, will automatically forfeit allotment in the hostel.

No student is allowed to have any political affiliation. Any students involved in such activities is liable to be expelled from the hostel.


The students are warned not to bring friends or guardians inside the dining hall with out permission of the Chief Warden.

Self certificate of Medical fitness counter signed by parent / Guardian should be submitted to the Chief Warden at the time of joining.

Private cooking in the hostel room is prohibited. Out side food like junk food, eggs and milk etc, is not allowed into hostel.

The college management reserves the right to deny entry of the visitors into the hostel if their visit is likely to disturb the peace and order of the hostel.

College authorities reserve the right to take disciplinary action including cancellation of allotment of accommodation in the hostel at any time for violation of the hostel rules.

Replacement of fans and bulbs if necessary will be at the expenses of the hosteller.

The overall supervision and control of the hostellers in the hostel shall be vested on the Chief Warden and Vice Chairman.

Smoking and consumption of Alcohol, Gutka, Pan masala and Drugs etc. is prohibited inside the campus.

Terrace movement is prohibited.

Religious gatherings, prayers of any kind pertaining to any religion is strictly prohibited inside the hostel campus. However permission will be given to celebrate such events at earmarked places inside campus only during festive occasions.


Students going for outing should return in the stipulated time. Other wise a penalty will be imposed on them."""